---
maxage: 5
minage: 3
layout: default
fee: $75
time: Wednesday 6:00pm-6:45pm & Saturday 11:45am – 12:30pm
location: Maplewood Park, Black Diamond
---

- The season is late April/early May (weather pending) to third week of June.
- Parent attendance is required at all practices/games.
- Practice/games are played in {{ page.location }}.
- Two practice/games per week: {{ page.time }}.
- Snack/Water break (each child brings their own) between skills and mini game each session.
- Small sided soccer, 3-4 players per side (3v3 or 4v4). No goal keepers. Size 3 ball.
- Registration fee includes a team jersey and team photo
- **Shin pads and appropriate running shoes are required.**
- Opportunity to take part in Black Diamond Parade.
 

### Expectations at the U5 Level


- The following skills will be developed at the U5 age group:
- Teach them which direction to go to score or defend their net
- How to stop the ball
- Introduce how to pass and shoot the ball
- A coach from each team will be on the field coaching/directing the players
- Parents provide encouragement from the sidelines-they may come on the field with their child if necessary but ONLY children may have contact with the ball.
- Parents can space themselves around the playing field and if the ball is headed out of bounds they can gently redirect it back in to play.
- 2, 15-minute halves with a 10-minute water/snack break between
- Short shifts of approx. 2 minutes - at the coaches’ discretion.
- Each team can be split into 2 shifts (usually based on age and temperament of players). Coaches discuss with other team beforehand how they are dividing their shifts.
- No score keeping
- Lots of positive encouragement and just have fun!
