---
maxage: 7
minage: 6
layout: default
fee: $85
time: Tuesday 6:00pm-7:00pm and Saturday 10:30am-11:30am
location: Maplewood Park, Black Diamond
---

- The season is late April (weather pending) to third week of June.
- Practice/games are played in {{ page.location }}.
- Two practice/games per week: {{ page.time }}.
- Snack/Water break (each child brings their own) between skills and mini game each session.
- Small sided soccer, 4-5 players per side (4v4 or 5v5). No goal keepers. Size 3 ball.
- Registration fee includes a team jersey and team photo 
- Appropriate running shoes are required (shin pads recommended).
- Sportsmanship rules apply.
- Opportunity to take part in Black Diamond Parade.
 

### Expectations at the U7 Level


- The following skills will be developed at the U7 age group:
- Teach them which way to go – how to move with the ball, how to dribble the ball
- Teach how to stop the ball using bottom, inside and outside of the foot
- Teach how to pass with inside and outside of foot
- Introduce how to shoot the ball
- A coach from each team will be on the field coaching/directing the players
- Parents provide encouragement from the sidelines-they may come on the field with their child if necessary but ONLY children may have contact with the ball.
- 2, 15-20-minute halves with a 10-minute water/snack break between
- Short shifts of approximately 2 minutes - at the coaches’ discretion.
- Each team can be split into 2 shifts (usually based on age and temperament of players). Coaches discuss with other team beforehand how they are dividing their shifts.
- No score keeping
- Lots of positive encouragement and just have fun!
