---
maxage: 9
minage: 8
layout: default
fee: $110
time: Tuesday Evenings and Saturday 11:45am-12:45pm (Practice time at discretion of coach)
location: C. Ian McLaren in Black Diamond or Turner Valley Soccer Field
---

- The season is the end of April to the third week of June. Practices may commence earlier
- TRAVEL IS REQUIRED. (Including Vulcan, Nanton, Red Deer Lake, High River, Millarville, & Okotoks) Home games/practices are played at {{ page.location }}.
- {{ page.time }}. Games typically are Tuesday. Time depends on the other teams and what time they schedule your division in. 
- Game Kick-off generally at 6:30pm (refer to team schedule). Game length: 2 x 25-minute halves.
- Seven players per side (7v7) with a designated keeper. Size 4 ball.
- Registration fee includes team photo
- Shin pads and appropriate soccer shoes (cleats) are required.
- Opportunity to take part in Black Diamond Parade.
- Part of High Country League and follows The High Country League Code of Conduct.
 

### Expectations at the U9 Level


- The following Skills will be developed at the U9 age group:
- Teach how to dribble the ball (changes of speed and direction)
- Teach how to stop the ball (bottom, inside and outside of the foot)
- Teach how to pass with inside and outside of foot - introduce how to shoot the ball and a proper throw-in
- Teach 1-4 Feint moves to lose a defender (will be taught at coaches’ clinic)
- Introduce the "proper technique" for how to head a soccer ball
- Teach how to shield a ball
- Introduce how to cross a soccer ball
- Introduce how to properly defend
- Continue to teach the basic rules of the game
- Introduction to offside rule, which includes "cherry picking" (i.e. hanging out at the goal waiting for the ball)
- Offside will be called
- Throw-ins – if it is done wrong, explain what needs to be corrected and do it again
- Corner/goal kicks – referee (or coach) explains it to the player
- Referees will be provided – coaches may also be on the field to help instruct players in the case where there is no outside referee, one coach from each team is on the field refereeing/coaching/directing players
- Parents encourage from the sidelines – leave the coaching/directing to the coaches and referees
