---
maxage: 11
minage: 10
layout: default
fee: $110
---
U11 Mixed League
- The season is end of April to third week of June. Practices may commence earlier.
- Children born 2012/2013 are eligible.
- TRAVEL IS REQUIRED. (Including Vulcan, Nanton, Red Deer Lake, High River, Millarville & Okotoks) Home games/practices are played at CIM School in Black Diamond
- 1 game per week and 1 optional practice at the discretion of coach/team. Wednesday evenings each week (excluding optional practice & any rescheduling).
- Game kick-off generally at 6:30pm (refer to team schedule). Game length: 2 x 30-minute halves.
- Seven players per side (7v7) with a designated keeper. Size 4 ball.
- Registration fee includes team photo.
- Shin pads and appropriate soccer shoes (cleats) are required.
- Opportunity to take part in Black Diamond Parade.
- Part of the High Country League and follows The High Country League Code of Conduct.
 

### Expectations at the U11 age Group


- Continue techniques for dribbling (speeds and direction); ball stopping (bottom, inside and outside of the foot); passing with inside and outside of foot
- Continue development of shooting the ball and a proper throw-in
- Teach positions
- Work on the "proper technique" for how to head a soccer ball
- Teach how to shield a ball
- Continue how to cross a soccer ball
- Continue working on how to properly defend and transitioning between offense and defense
- Introduce positioning for corner kicks (both offense and defense)
- Introduce proper goal kicks
- Continue basic rules of the game
- Teach 1-4 Feint moves to lose a defender (will be taught at coaches’ clinic)
- Introduction to offside rule, which includes "cherry picking" (i.e. hanging out at the goal waiting for the ball)
- Parents encourage from the sidelines – leave the coaching/directing to the coaches and referees
