---
maxage: 13
minage: 12
layout: default
fee: $120
time: Thursdays Evenings and Saturday 9:15am-10:15am (Practice time at discretion of coach)
location: Turner Valley Field
---

- The season is end of April to the third week of June. Practices may commence earlier.
- TRAVEL IS REQUIRED. (Including Vulcan, Nanton, High River, Red Deer Lake, & Millarville) Home games/practices are played at {{ page.location }}.
- {{ page.time }} (game times dependent upon league).
- Game kick-off generally at 7:00pm (refer to team schedule). Game length: 2 x 40 minute halves.
- Eight players per side (8v8) with a designated keeper. Size 5 ball.
- Registration fee includes team photo.
- Shin pads and appropriate closed toed shoes are required.
- Opportunity to take part in Black Diamond Parade.
- Part of the High Country League and follows The High Country League Code of Conduct
 

### Expectation at the U13 age group


- Continue techniques for dribbling (speeds and direction); ball stopping (bottom, inside and outside of the foot); passing with inside and outside of foot
- Continue development of shooting the ball and a proper throw-in
- Teach positions
- Work on the "proper technique" for how to head a soccer ball
- Teach how to shield a ball
- Continue how to cross a soccer ball
- Continue working on how to properly defend and transitioning between offense and defense
- Introduce positioning for corner kicks (both offense and defense)
- Introduce proper goal kicks
- Continue basic rules of the game
- Teach 1-4 Feint moves to lose a defender (will be taught at coaches’ clinic)
- Introduction to offside rule, which includes "cherry picking" (i.e. hanging out at the goal waiting for the ball)
- Parents encourage from the sidelines – leave the coaching/directing to the coaches and referees
